CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Contributing to ProximaX-bc-docs

First off, thank you for considering contributing to NEM Developer Center. 

The NEM Developer Center is an open source project and we love to receive contributions from our community — you! 
There are many ways to contribute, from writing guides, improving the documentation, submitting errors and requests or
 writing new pieces of documentation which can be incorporated into the docs itself.

Following these guidelines helps to communicate that you respect the time of
the developers managing and developing this open source project. In return,
they should reciprocate that respect in addressing your issue, assessing changes,
and help you finalize your pull requests.

Please, **don't use the issue tracker for support questions**.

## Error reports

If you think you have found an error in the NEM Developer Center, first make sure that you
are testing against the latest version of nem2-docs - your issue may already
have been fixed. If not, search our issues list on GitHub in case a similar
issue has already been opened.

It is very helpful if you can prepare a reproduction of the error. It makes it easier to
find the problem and to fix it.

Please, take into consideration the next template to report your issue:

> **Error description**\
> Short and expressive sentence explaining what is wrong.\
> **Url or screenshot**\
> For faster issue detection, we would need where to find it.

Provide as much information as you can.

Open a new issue [here][github-issues].

## Requests

If you find yourself wishing for content that does not exist in nem2-docs, you are probably not alone. 
Most of the documentation and guides that nem2-docs has today have been added because our users saw the need. 
Open an [issue][github-issues] on our issues list on GitHub which describes the missing documentation or improvement 
you would like to see.

If the improvement is not related to documentation, but with a specific project, please check CONTRIBUTING.md in the 
project repository.

## Contributing code and documentation changes

To expand and improve the NEM Developer Center, please find or open an issue about it first. 
Talk about what you would like to do. It may be that somebody is already working on it, 
or that there are particular issues that you should know about before implementing the change.

We enjoy working with contributors to get their pull-requests accepted.

### Contributing License Notice

When you contribute code, you affirm that the contribution is your original work and that you license the work to the project under the project's open source license.

Whether or not you state this explicitly, by submitting any copyrighted material via pull request, email, or other means you agree to license the material under the project's open source license and warrant that you have the legal authority to do so.

### Fork and clone the repository

If the documentation change is small, you can use the *"Edit on Github"* button at the top of the page.

For substantial changes or contributions, you may need to fork the main nem2-docs repository and clone
it to your local machine. See [github help page](https://help.github.com/articles/fork-a-repo/) for help.

Further instructions for specific projects are given below.

### Submitting your changes

Once your changes and tests are ready to submit for review:

1. Test your changes

    Run `yarn start` and preview your changes.

2. Submit a pull request

    Push your local changes to your forked copy of the repository and [submit a pull request](https://help.github.com/articles/about-pull-requests/). In the pull request, choose a title which sums up the changes that you have made, and in the body provide more details about what your changes do. Also mention the number of the issue where discussion has taken place, eg "Closes #123".

Then sit back and wait. There will probably be a discussion about the pull request and, if any changes are needed, we would love to work with you to get your pull request merged into nem2-docs.

*CONTRIBUTING.md is based on [CONTRIBUTING-template.md](https://github.com/nayafia/contributing-template/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING-template.md)* , [elasticsearch/CONTRIBUTING](https://github.com/elastic/elasticsearch/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md) and [spark/CONTRIBUTING](https://github.com/apache/spark/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md)

[pull-request]: https://help.github.com/articles/about-pull-requests/
[github-issues]: https://github.com/nemtech/nem2-docs/issues

Commit message:

replace nem with proximax references

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Contributing to ProximaX-bc-docs

First off, thank you for considering contributing to ProximaX Developer Center. 

The ProximaX Developer Center is an open source project and we love to receive contributions from our community — you! 
There are many ways to contribute, from writing guides, improving the documentation, submitting errors and requests or
 writing new pieces of documentation which can be incorporated into the docs itself.

Following these guidelines helps to communicate that you respect the time of
the developers managing and developing this open source project. In return,
they should reciprocate that respect in addressing your issue, assessing changes,
and help you finalize your pull requests.

Please, **don't use the issue tracker for support questions**.

## Error reports

If you think you have found an error in the ProximaX Developer Center, first make sure that you
are testing against the latest version of proximax-bc-docs - your issue may already
have been fixed. If not, search our issues list on GitHub in case a similar
issue has already been opened.

It is very helpful if you can prepare a reproduction of the error. It makes it easier to
find the problem and to fix it.

Please, take into consideration the next template to report your issue:

> **Error description**\
> Short and expressive sentence explaining what is wrong.\
> **Url or screenshot**\
> For faster issue detection, we would need where to find it.

Provide as much information as you can.

Open a new issue [here][github-issues].

## Requests

If you find yourself wishing for content that does not exist in proximax-bc-docs, you are probably not alone. 
Most of the documentation and guides that proximax-bc-docs has today have been added because our users saw the need. 
Open an [issue][github-issues] on our issues list on GitHub which describes the missing documentation or improvement 
you would like to see.

If the improvement is not related to documentation, but with a specific project, please check CONTRIBUTING.md in the 
project repository.

## Contributing code and documentation changes

To expand and improve the ProximaX Developer Center, please find or open an issue about it first. 
Talk about what you would like to do. It may be that somebody is already working on it, 
or that there are particular issues that you should know about before implementing the change.

We enjoy working with contributors to get their pull-requests accepted.

### Contributing License Notice

When you contribute code, you affirm that the contribution is your original work and that you license the work to the project under the project's open source license.

Whether or not you state this explicitly, by submitting any copyrighted material via pull request, email, or other means you agree to license the material under the project's open source license and warrant that you have the legal authority to do so.

### Fork and clone the repository

If the documentation change is small, you can use the *"Edit on Github"* button at the top of the page.

For substantial changes or contributions, you may need to fork the main proximax-bc-docs repository and clone
it to your local machine. See [github help page](https://help.github.com/articles/fork-a-repo/) for help.

Further instructions for specific projects are given below.

### Submitting your changes

Once your changes and tests are ready to submit for review:

1. Test your changes

    Run `yarn start` and preview your changes.

2. Submit a pull request

    Push your local changes to your forked copy of the repository and [submit a pull request](https://help.github.com/articles/about-pull-requests/). In the pull request, choose a title which sums up the changes that you have made, and in the body provide more details about what your changes do. Also mention the number of the issue where discussion has taken place, eg "Closes #123".

Then sit back and wait. There will probably be a discussion about the pull request and, if any changes are needed, we would love to work with you to get your pull request merged into proximax-bc-docs.

*CONTRIBUTING.md is based on [CONTRIBUTING-template.md](https://github.com/nayafia/contributing-template/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING-template.md)* , [elasticsearch/CONTRIBUTING](https://github.com/elastic/elasticsearch/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md) and [spark/CONTRIBUTING](https://github.com/apache/spark/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md)

[pull-request]: https://help.github.com/articles/about-pull-requests/
[github-issues]: https://github.com/proximax-storage/proximax-bc-docs/issues
