website/static/downloads/README_SDK.md, before:

[comment]: # (Replace variables LANGUAGE_NAME, YEAR, LICENSE_NAME, CONTRIBUTORS, GITHUB_NICKNAME and complete Requirements and Installation sections)

# nem2-sdk for <LANGUAGE_NAME>

nem2-sdk for <LANGUAGE_NAME> to interact with NEM2 (a.k.a Catapult).

## Requirements

- A
- B
- C

## Installation

```$>```

## Documentation and Getting Started

Get started and learn more about nem2-sdk-<LANGUAGE_NAME>, check the [official documentation][docs].

Check SDK reference [here][sdk-ref]

## nem2-sdk Releases

The release notes for the nem2-sdk can be found [here](CHANGELOG.md).

## Contributing

This project is developed and maintained by <CONTRIBUTORS>. Contributions are welcome and appreciated. You can find [nem2-sdk on GitHub][self]; 
Feel free to start an issue or create a pull request. Check [CONTRIBUTING](CONTRIBUTING.md) before start.

## Getting help

We use GitHub issues for tracking bugs and have limited bandwidth to address them.
Please, use the following available resources to get help:

- [nem2-cli documentation][docs]
- If you found a bug, [open a new issue][issues]

## License

Copyright (c) <YEAR> ProximaX
Licensed under the <LICENSE_NAME>

[self]: https://github.com/proximax-storage/nem2-sdk-<LANGUAGE_NAME>
[docs]: http://proximax-storage.github.io/getting-started/setup-workstation.html
[issues]: https://github.com/<GITHUB_NICKNAME>/nem2-sdk-<LANGUAGE_NAME>/issues
[sdk-ref]: http://proximax-storage.github.io/nem2-sdk-<LANGUAGE_NAME>

Commit message:

replace catapult with Sirius-Chain, standardize the use of blockchain with Sirius-Chain

website/static/downloads/README_SDK.md, after:

[comment]: # (Replace variables LANGUAGE_NAME, YEAR, LICENSE_NAME, CONTRIBUTORS, GITHUB_NICKNAME and complete Requirements and Installation sections)

# xpx-chain-sdk for <LANGUAGE_NAME>

xpx-chain-sdk for <LANGUAGE_NAME> to interact with ProximaX Sirius-Chain.

## Requirements

- A
- B
- C

## Installation

```$>```

## Documentation and Getting Started

Get started and learn more about xpx-chain-sdk-<LANGUAGE_NAME>, check the [official documentation][docs].

Check SDK reference [here][sdk-ref]

## xpx-chain-sdk Releases

The release notes for the xpx-chain-sdk can be found [here](CHANGELOG.md).

## Contributing

This project is developed and maintained by <CONTRIBUTORS>. Contributions are welcome and appreciated. You can find [xpx-chain-sdk on GitHub][self]; 
Feel free to start an issue or create a pull request. Check [CONTRIBUTING](CONTRIBUTING.md) before start.

## Getting help

We use GitHub issues for tracking bugs and have limited bandwidth to address them.
Please, use the following available resources to get help:

- [xpx-cli documentation][docs]
- If you found a bug, [open a new issue][issues]

## License

Copyright (c) <YEAR> ProximaX
Licensed under the <LICENSE_NAME>

[self]: https://github.com/proximax-storage/<LANGUAGE_NAME>-xpx-chain-sdk
[docs]: http://proximax-storage.github.io/getting-started/setup-workstation.html
[issues]: https://github.com/<GITHUB_NICKNAME>/<LANGUAGE_NAME>-xpx-chain-sdk/issues
[sdk-ref]: http://proximax-storage.github.io/<LANGUAGE_NAME>-xpx-chain-sdk
