docs/protocol/block.md, before:

---
id: block
title: Block
---
The central element of every cryptocurrency is a public ledger called the called blockchain, which links blocks together.

Since the blocks in the chain are ordered, the complete transaction history is held in the blockchain. Subsequent blocks in the blockchain have increasing heights that differ by one.

Blocks are stored in a database as permanent medium. Sirius-Chain calls the first block in the chain the nemesis block.

Sirius-Chain blocks complete every `15` seconds, making transactions confirm quickly enough for everyday use.

<div class="info">

**Note**

Configuration parameters are [editable](https://github.com/proximax-storage/catapult-server/blob/master/resources/config-network.properties). Public network configuration may differ.
</div>

## Block creation

Blocks are created by [accounts](../built-in-features/account.md). The process of creating new blocks is called [harvesting](./harvesting.md). The harvesting account - called the harvester - gets the fees for the transactions in the block. This gives the harvester an incentive to add as many transactions to the block as possible.


## Guides

- [Listening to new blocks](../guides/block/listening-new-blocks.md)

    Get notified when a new block is included.

- [Getting block by height](../guides/block/getting-block-by-height.md)

    Get the block information given a height.

## Schemas

### BlockHeader
Inlines:

- [VerifiableEntity](#verifiableentity)
- [EntityBody](#entitybody)

**Property** | **Type** | **Description**
-------------|----------|----------------
height | uint64 | The height of the blockchain. Each blockchain has a unique height. Subsequent blocks differ in height by 1.
timestamp |	uint64 | The number of seconds elapsed since the creation of the nemesis block.
difficulty | uint64 | The block difficulty.
feeMultiplier | uint32 | The fee multiplier applied to transactions contained in block.
previousBlockHash |	32 bytes (binary) |	The hash of the previous block.
blockTransactionHash | 32 bytes (binary) |	The transactions included in a block are hashed forming a [merkle tree](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Merkle_tree). The root of the tree summarizes them.
blockReceiptsHash | 32 bytes (binary) |	The collection of [receipts](./receipt.md) are hashed into a [merkle tree](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Merkle_tree) and linked to a [block](#). The block header stores the root hash.
stateHash |	32 bytes (binary) |	The state of the blockchain is stored in RocksDB for each block, forming a [patricia tree](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Radix_tree). The root of the tree summarizes the state of the blockchain for a given block.
beneficiaryPublicKey | 32 bytes (binary) | The public key of the optional beneficiary designated by harvester.

**Version**: The higher byte represents the network identifier.

**Id** | **Description**
-------|----------------
0x68 (MAIN_NET) | Public main network
0x98 (TEST_NET) | Public test network
0x60 (MIJIN) | Private network
0x90 (MIJIN_TEST) | Private test network

**Type**: The type of the block.

**Id** | **Description**
-------|----------------
0x8043 | Nemesis block
0x8143 | Block

### VerifiableEntity

**Property** | **Type** | **Description**
-------------|----------|----------------
signature | 64 bytes (binary) | The entity signature generated by the signer.

### EntityBody

**Property** | **Type** | **Description**
-------------|----------|----------------
signer | 32 bytes (binary) | The entity signer’s [public key](../built-in-features/account.md).
version | uint16 | The version of the structure.
type | uint16 | The entity type. For transaction types, see [transaction types](./transaction.md#transaction-types).

Commit message:

change harvesting to validating, changed versioning

docs/protocol/block.md, after:

---
id: block
title: Block
---
The central element of every cryptocurrency is a public ledger called the called blockchain, which links blocks together.

Since the blocks in the chain are ordered, the complete transaction history is held in the blockchain. Subsequent blocks in the blockchain have increasing heights that differ by one.

Blocks are stored in a database as permanent medium. Sirius-Chain calls the first block in the chain the nemesis block.

Sirius-Chain blocks complete every `15` seconds, making transactions confirm quickly enough for everyday use.

<div class="info">

**Note**

Configuration parameters are [editable](https://github.com/proximax-storage/catapult-server/blob/master/resources/config-network.properties). Public network configuration may differ.
</div>

## Block creation

Blocks are created by [accounts](../built-in-features/account.md). The process of creating new blocks is called [validating](./validating.md). The validating account - called the validator - gets the fees for the transactions in the block. This gives the validator an incentive to add as many transactions to the block as possible.


## Guides

- [Listening to new blocks](../guides/block/listening-new-blocks.md)

    Get notified when a new block is included.

- [Getting block by height](../guides/block/getting-block-by-height.md)

    Get the block information given a height.

## Schemas

### BlockHeader
Inlines:

- [VerifiableEntity](#verifiableentity)
- [EntityBody](#entitybody)

**Property** | **Type** | **Description**
-------------|----------|----------------
height | uint64 | The height of the blockchain. Each blockchain has a unique height. Subsequent blocks differ in height by 1.
timestamp |	uint64 | The number of seconds elapsed since the creation of the nemesis block.
difficulty | uint64 | The block difficulty.
feeMultiplier | uint32 | The fee multiplier applied to transactions contained in block.
previousBlockHash |	32 bytes (binary) |	The hash of the previous block.
blockTransactionHash | 32 bytes (binary) |	The transactions included in a block are hashed forming a [merkle tree](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Merkle_tree). The root of the tree summarizes them.
blockReceiptsHash | 32 bytes (binary) |	The collection of [receipts](./receipt.md) are hashed into a [merkle tree](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Merkle_tree) and linked to a [block](#). The block header stores the root hash.
stateHash |	32 bytes (binary) |	The state of the blockchain is stored in RocksDB for each block, forming a [patricia tree](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Radix_tree). The root of the tree summarizes the state of the blockchain for a given block.
beneficiaryPublicKey | 32 bytes (binary) | The public key of the optional beneficiary designated by validator.

**Version**: The higher byte represents the network identifier.

**Id** | **Description**
-------|----------------
0x68 (MAIN_NET) | Public main network
0x98 (TEST_NET) | Public test network
0x60 (MIJIN) | Private network
0x90 (MIJIN_TEST) | Private test network

**Type**: The type of the block.

**Id** | **Description**
-------|----------------
0x8043 | Nemesis block
0x8143 | Block

### VerifiableEntity

**Property** | **Type** | **Description**
-------------|----------|----------------
signature | 64 bytes (binary) | The entity signature generated by the signer.

### EntityBody

**Property** | **Type** | **Description**
-------------|----------|----------------
signer | 32 bytes (binary) | The entity signer’s [public key](../built-in-features/account.md).
version | uint16 | The version of the structure.
type | uint16 | The entity type. For transaction types, see [transaction types](./transaction.md#transaction-types).
