docs/sdks/documentation.md, before:

---
id: sdk-documentation
title: SDK Documentation
---
SDKs need to be adopted by other developers. As a contributor, no one knows better than you how a determined SDK works. Consider helping others and spread the usage of the SDK by providing the following documentation.

## Readme

Check if your repository has a complete README. Consider adapting the <a href="/downloads/README_SDK.md" >here</a> template used by some SDKs.

Required sections:

- Requirements
- Installation
- Contributing
- License

## Comments and reference docs

Document functions and classes with comments while you write your code. A reference generator should be able to read this comments and generate HTML as an output.

Some examples of reference generators are [TypeDoc](https://typedoc.org/) for Javascript, whereas in Java we are using [Javadoc](https://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/javadoc-137458.html). Research which is the reference generator most convenient for your language.

## Guides

The NEM Developer Center gathers a collection of [guides](../built-in-features/account.md). They show developers how to use NEM built-in features while following step-by-step use cases.

Each guide comes with at least one snippet. Snippets are executable pieces of code that solve the proposed use case.

Writing snippets helps you to compare how the SDK code looks like in contrast with others. Furthermore, you will be testing manually if the SDK behaves correctly.

1. [Fork](https://help.github.com/articles/fork-a-repo/#fork-an-example-repository) and clone [proximax-bc-docs repository](https://github.com/proximax-storage/proximax-bc-docs).

```
$> git clone https://github.com/<YOUR_USERNAME>/proximax-bc-docs.git
```

2. Create a new folder under `source/resources/examples/` called .
3. Code each example. Take [typescript snippets](https://github.com/proximax-storage/proximax-bc-docs/tree/master/source/resources/examples/typescript) as a reference.
4. Push the changes, and [create a pull request](https://services.github.com/on-demand/intro-to-github/es/crear-pull-request).

Commit message:

replace catapult with Sirius-Chain, standardize the use of blockchain with Sirius-Chain

docs/sdks/documentation.md, after:

---
id: sdk-documentation
title: SDK Documentation
---
SDKs need to be adopted by other developers. As a contributor, no one knows better than you how a determined SDK works. Consider helping others and spread the usage of the SDK by providing the following documentation.

## Readme

Check if your repository has a complete README. Consider adapting the <a href="/downloads/README_SDK.md" >here</a> template used by some SDKs.

Required sections:

- Requirements
- Installation
- Contributing
- License

## Comments and reference docs

Document functions and classes with comments while you write your code. A reference generator should be able to read this comments and generate HTML as an output.

Some examples of reference generators are [TypeDoc](https://typedoc.org/) for Javascript, whereas in Java we are using [Javadoc](https://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/javadoc-137458.html). Research which is the reference generator most convenient for your language.

## Guides

The ProximaX Sirius-Chain Developer Center gathers a collection of [guides](../built-in-features/account.md). They show developers how to use Sirius-Chain built-in features while following step-by-step use cases.

Each guide comes with at least one snippet. Snippets are executable pieces of code that solve the proposed use case.

Writing snippets helps you to compare how the SDK code looks like in contrast with others. Furthermore, you will be testing manually if the SDK behaves correctly.

1. [Fork](https://help.github.com/articles/fork-a-repo/#fork-an-example-repository) and clone [proximax-bc-docs repository](https://github.com/proximax-storage/proximax-bc-docs).

```
$> git clone https://github.com/<YOUR_USERNAME>/proximax-bc-docs.git
```

2. Create a new folder under `source/resources/examples/` called .
3. Code each example. Take [typescript snippets](https://github.com/proximax-storage/proximax-bc-docs/tree/master/source/resources/examples/typescript) as a reference.
4. Push the changes, and [create a pull request](https://services.github.com/on-demand/intro-to-github/es/crear-pull-request).
