docs/sdks/migration.md, before:

---
id: migration
title: Preparing for NEM2-SDK 1.0.0
sidebar_label: Migration from NIS1
---
We are pleased to present NEM-2SDK 0.9.1. These release notes include NEM2-SDK new features and breaking changes over its predecessor NEM-Library.

<div class=info>

**Warning**

The SDKs methods could change until it reaches the stable version 1.0.0. For now, Catapult is only available in a test net environment. Consider it before applying changes and uploading your software to production.

</div>

## Install latest version

Select your [programming language](./overview.md) and [install the latest version](../getting-started/setting-up-workstation.md#setting-up-the-development-environment). Make sure to uninstall previous versions of NEM2-SDK or NEM Library.

## What is new?

NEM2-SDK shares the same design/architecture between programming languages. That means fast language adaptation, cohesion and shared knowledge between NEM developers, most rapid SDK updates and fewer bugs.

NEM-SDK does not add features that are not 100% related to [Catapult REST API](../rest-api/overview.md#requests). Instead, it permits to be extended by the use of new standalone [libraries](./extending-proximax-blockchain-capabilities.md).

The new SDK implements the new features available in Catapult.

## Repositories

**BlockChainHttp**

- Added getBlocksByHeightWithLimit method.
- Added getBlockTransactions method.
- Added getDiagnosticStorage method.

**AccountHttp**

- Added getAccountsInfo to get multiple accounts information at once.

**MosaicHttp**

- Added getMosaics to get multiple mosaics information at once.
- Added getMosaicsName to get multiple mosaic names.

**NamespaceHttp**

- Added getNamespacesFromAccount to get account owned namespaces information.
- Added getNamespacesFromAccounts to get multiple accounts owned namespaces information at once.
- Added getNamespacesName to get multiple mosaics name.

**TransactionHttp**

- Added getTransactions to get multiple transactions at once.
- Added getTransactionStatus to get transaction status.
- Added getTransactionsStatuses to get multiple transactions status.
- Added announceAggregateBonded to announce aggregate bonded transactions.
- Added announceAggregateBondedCosignature to announce AggregateCosignatureTransaction.

## Listeners

- Added new listeners.

## Models

**Account**

- Added access private key of the account.
- Added generate a new account.
- Added signCosignatureTransaction.
- Added signTransactionWithCosignatories.

**Address**

- Added static constructor createFromPublicKey.

**BlockchainStorageInfo**

- New model.

**BlockchainScore**

- New model.

**MosaicName**

- New model.

**NamespaceId**

- New model.

**NamespaceName**

- New model.

**Public Account**

- Added equals method.

**Transaction**

- Added is unconfirmed method.
- Added is confirmed method.
- Added is partial method.
- Added is unannounced method.

**AggregateTransaction**

- New Model.

**LockFundsTransaction**

- New model.

**SecretLockTransaction**

- New Model.

**SecretProofTransaction**

- New model

**MultisigAccountInfo**

- New model.

**MultisigAccountGraphInfo**

- New Model.

**XPX**

- Added two static constructors, createRelative and createAbsolute.


## General

**Package name**

Import nem2-sdk instead of nem-library.

```js
import { ... } from 'nem2-sdk';
```

**Removed network bootstrapping**

When using NEM Library, the network was selected when initiating a project.

In this new version, bootstrapping the network is not needed anymore.

NEM2-SDK allows you create transactions for different networks in the same project by providing the network when creating transactions.

## Repositories

**AccountHttp**

- Changed getFromAddress and getFromPublicKey to getAccountInfo.
- Moved getNamespaceOwnedByAddress to NamespaceHttp.
- Moved getMosaicCreatedByAddress and getMosaicOwnedByAddress to MosaicHttp.

**BlockChainHttp**

- Merged BlockHttp and ChainHttp into BlockChainHttp repository.

**MosaicHttp**

    Changed getMosaicDefinition to getMosaic.
    Changed getAllMosaicsGivenNamespace to getMosaicsFromNamespace.

**NamespaceHttp**

- Removed getRootNamespaces.

**TransactionHttp**

- Changed getByHash to getTransaction.
- Changed announceTransaction to announce.

**Listener**

- Changed returned types.
- Grouped all listeners: AccountListener, ConfirmedTransactionListener, UnconfirmedTransactionListener and BlockchainListener into Listener class.

## Models

**Account**

- Changed signTransactions -> sign.
- Changed createWithPrivateKey -> createFromPrivateKey, now we need to introduce networkType of the account.

Account Info

- Changed balance -> mosaics, being mosaic an array of mosaics with the amount holded of each mosaic.
- Removed multisig account information from account info, now available with MultisigAccountGraphInfo, MultisigAccountInfo due to introduction of multilevel multisignature accounts.

**Address**

- Changed constructor to be createFromRawAddress.
- Changed network method name to property networkType.

**Public Account**

- Changed constructor name createWithPublicKey to createFromPublicKey.
- Changed public account will always have public key, removed nem-library hasPublicKey method.

**Block**

- Changed name from Block to BlockInfo
- Added current hash information.
- Removed transactions not returned within blockInfo, must be queried using BlockHttp getBlockTransactions method.

**Mosaic**

- Changed quantity name to amount.
- Changed mosaicId name to id.
- Changed types.

**MosaicId**

- Changed properties from namespaceId (string) and name (string) to Id.
- Changed constructor.

**MosaicDefinition**

- Changed name from MosaicDefinition to MosaicInfo.

**Namespace**

- Changed name from Namespace to NamespaceInfo.

**TimeWindow**

- Changed model to Deadline.

**Transaction**

- Changed property names and types.

**TransactionInfo**

- Changed property names and types.

**SignedTransaction**

- Changed property names and types.

**TransferTransaction**

- Unified create and createWithMosaics constructors to create.
- Create constructor needs network type as a property.
- Unified xem and mosaics properties to mosaics array.
- Changed other property names and types.

**ProvisionNamespaceTransaction**

- Changed name from ProvisionNamespaceTransaction to RegisterNamespaceTransaction.
- Changed createRoot constructor name to createRootNamespace.
- Changed createSub constructor name to createSubNamespace.
- Changed other property names and types.

**MosaicDefinitionCreationTransaction**

- Changed name from MosaicDefinitionCreationTransaction to MosaicDefinitionCreationTransaction.
- Changed other property names and types.

**MosaicSupplyChangeTransaction**

- Changed other property names and types.

**ModifyMultisigAccountTransaction**

- Changed MultisigAggregateModificationTransaction name to ModifyMultisigAccountTransaction
- Added minRemovalDelta.
- Changed other property names and types.

## Under development

Some features are not yet implemented in this version of the SDK.

- Encrypt and decrypt messages.
- Mosaic Levies.
- Connection pool.
- Harvesting.
- Pageables.
- NodeHttp.

Commit message:

replace catapult with Sirius-Chain, standardize the use of blockchain with Sirius-Chain

docs/sdks/migration.md, after:

---
id: migration
title: Preparing for XPX-Chain-SDK 1.0.0
sidebar_label: Migration from NIS1
---
We are pleased to present NEM-2SDK 0.9.1. These release notes include XPX-Chain-SDK new features and breaking changes over its predecessor NEM-Library.

<div class=info>

**Warning**

The SDKs methods could change until it reaches the stable version 1.0.0. For now, Sirius-Chain is only available in a test net environment. Consider it before applying changes and uploading your software to production.

</div>

## Install latest version

Select your [programming language](./overview.md) and [install the latest version](../getting-started/setting-up-workstation.md#setting-up-the-development-environment). Make sure to uninstall previous versions of XPX-Chain-SDK or NEM Library.

## What is new?

XPX-Chain-SDK shares the same design/architecture between programming languages. That means fast language adaptation, cohesion and shared knowledge between NEM developers, most rapid SDK updates and fewer bugs.

NEM-SDK does not add features that are not 100% related to [Sirius-Chain REST API](../rest-api/overview.md#requests). Instead, it permits to be extended by the use of new standalone [libraries](./extending-sirius-chain-capabilities.md).

The new SDK implements the new features available in Sirius-Chain.

## Repositories

**BlockChainHttp**

- Added getBlocksByHeightWithLimit method.
- Added getBlockTransactions method.
- Added getDiagnosticStorage method.

**AccountHttp**

- Added getAccountsInfo to get multiple accounts information at once.

**MosaicHttp**

- Added getMosaics to get multiple mosaics information at once.
- Added getMosaicsName to get multiple mosaic names.

**NamespaceHttp**

- Added getNamespacesFromAccount to get account owned namespaces information.
- Added getNamespacesFromAccounts to get multiple accounts owned namespaces information at once.
- Added getNamespacesName to get multiple mosaics name.

**TransactionHttp**

- Added getTransactions to get multiple transactions at once.
- Added getTransactionStatus to get transaction status.
- Added getTransactionsStatuses to get multiple transactions status.
- Added announceAggregateBonded to announce aggregate bonded transactions.
- Added announceAggregateBondedCosignature to announce AggregateCosignatureTransaction.

## Listeners

- Added new listeners.

## Models

**Account**

- Added access private key of the account.
- Added generate a new account.
- Added signCosignatureTransaction.
- Added signTransactionWithCosignatories.

**Address**

- Added static constructor createFromPublicKey.

**BlockchainStorageInfo**

- New model.

**BlockchainScore**

- New model.

**MosaicName**

- New model.

**NamespaceId**

- New model.

**NamespaceName**

- New model.

**Public Account**

- Added equals method.

**Transaction**

- Added is unconfirmed method.
- Added is confirmed method.
- Added is partial method.
- Added is unannounced method.

**AggregateTransaction**

- New Model.

**LockFundsTransaction**

- New model.

**SecretLockTransaction**

- New Model.

**SecretProofTransaction**

- New model

**MultisigAccountInfo**

- New model.

**MultisigAccountGraphInfo**

- New Model.

**XPX**

- Added two static constructors, createRelative and createAbsolute.


## General

**Package name**

Import xpx-chain-sdk instead of nem-library.

```js
import { ... } from 'xpx-chain-sdk';
```

**Removed network bootstrapping**

When using NEM Library, the network was selected when initiating a project.

In this new version, bootstrapping the network is not needed anymore.

XPX-Chain-SDK allows you create transactions for different networks in the same project by providing the network when creating transactions.

## Repositories

**AccountHttp**

- Changed getFromAddress and getFromPublicKey to getAccountInfo.
- Moved getNamespaceOwnedByAddress to NamespaceHttp.
- Moved getMosaicCreatedByAddress and getMosaicOwnedByAddress to MosaicHttp.

**BlockChainHttp**

- Merged BlockHttp and ChainHttp into BlockChainHttp repository.

**MosaicHttp**

    Changed getMosaicDefinition to getMosaic.
    Changed getAllMosaicsGivenNamespace to getMosaicsFromNamespace.

**NamespaceHttp**

- Removed getRootNamespaces.

**TransactionHttp**

- Changed getByHash to getTransaction.
- Changed announceTransaction to announce.

**Listener**

- Changed returned types.
- Grouped all listeners: AccountListener, ConfirmedTransactionListener, UnconfirmedTransactionListener and BlockchainListener into Listener class.

## Models

**Account**

- Changed signTransactions -> sign.
- Changed createWithPrivateKey -> createFromPrivateKey, now we need to introduce networkType of the account.

Account Info

- Changed balance -> mosaics, being mosaic an array of mosaics with the amount holded of each mosaic.
- Removed multisig account information from account info, now available with MultisigAccountGraphInfo, MultisigAccountInfo due to introduction of multilevel multisignature accounts.

**Address**

- Changed constructor to be createFromRawAddress.
- Changed network method name to property networkType.

**Public Account**

- Changed constructor name createWithPublicKey to createFromPublicKey.
- Changed public account will always have public key, removed nem-library hasPublicKey method.

**Block**

- Changed name from Block to BlockInfo
- Added current hash information.
- Removed transactions not returned within blockInfo, must be queried using BlockHttp getBlockTransactions method.

**Mosaic**

- Changed quantity name to amount.
- Changed mosaicId name to id.
- Changed types.

**MosaicId**

- Changed properties from namespaceId (string) and name (string) to Id.
- Changed constructor.

**MosaicDefinition**

- Changed name from MosaicDefinition to MosaicInfo.

**Namespace**

- Changed name from Namespace to NamespaceInfo.

**TimeWindow**

- Changed model to Deadline.

**Transaction**

- Changed property names and types.

**TransactionInfo**

- Changed property names and types.

**SignedTransaction**

- Changed property names and types.

**TransferTransaction**

- Unified create and createWithMosaics constructors to create.
- Create constructor needs network type as a property.
- Unified xpx and mosaics properties to mosaics array.
- Changed other property names and types.

**ProvisionNamespaceTransaction**

- Changed name from ProvisionNamespaceTransaction to RegisterNamespaceTransaction.
- Changed createRoot constructor name to createRootNamespace.
- Changed createSub constructor name to createSubNamespace.
- Changed other property names and types.

**MosaicDefinitionCreationTransaction**

- Changed name from MosaicDefinitionCreationTransaction to MosaicDefinitionCreationTransaction.
- Changed other property names and types.

**MosaicSupplyChangeTransaction**

- Changed other property names and types.

**ModifyMultisigAccountTransaction**

- Changed MultisigAggregateModificationTransaction name to ModifyMultisigAccountTransaction
- Added minRemovalDelta.
- Changed other property names and types.

## Under development

Some features are not yet implemented in this version of the SDK.

- Encrypt and decrypt messages.
- Mosaic Levies.
- Connection pool.
- Harvesting.
- Pageables.
- NodeHttp.
