docs/sdks/overview.md, before:

---
id: sdks-overview
title: SDK Overview
sidebar_label : Overview
---
The NEM2 Software Development Kit is the primary software development tool to create NEM2 components, such as additional tools, libraries or applications. Almost all, if not all, components should use **NEM2-SDK** instead of raw API.

<div class=info>

**Warning**

The SDKs methods could change until it reaches the stable version 1.0.0.

</div>

The new SDK enables developers to focus on their product rather than on the NEM2 Blockchain specific API details due to its higher abstraction.

NEM2-SDK shares the same design/architecture between programming languages to accomplish the next properties:

- **Fast language adaptation**: There is a library for Java, but you need it for C# for example. As both SDKs share the same design, you can re-write the library faster, adapting the syntax to your language. It also applies to examples, projects, applications…
- **Cohesion/shared knowledge cross ProximaX developers**: Be able to change between projects that use ProximaX, sharing the same design accompanied by the best practices.
- **Fast SDK updates**: Migrating any improvement from a NEM2-SDK implementation to the rest is faster.
- **Fewer bugs**: If any bug appears in one language, it is faster to check and fix it.

The best way to learn about the SDKs is through [guides](../built-in-features/account.md).

## Backward compatibility with NIS1 SDKs

<div class=info>

**Note**

Final information regarding compatibility with NIS1 is not available yet.

</div>

Start planning the migration to NEM2-SDK to take advantage of new Catapult features and future releases.

Check [Preparing for NEM2-SDK 1.0.0](./migration.md) to see new features and changes that break backward compatibility with ProximaX-Library.

Commit message:

replace catapult with Sirius-Chain, standardize the use of blockchain with Sirius-Chain

docs/sdks/overview.md, after:

---
id: sdks-overview
title: SDK Overview
sidebar_label : Overview
---
The Sirius-Chain Software Development Kit is the primary software development tool to create chain components, such as additional tools, libraries or applications. Almost all, if not all, components should use **XPX-Chain-SDK** instead of raw API.

<div class=info>

**Warning**

The SDKs methods could change until it reaches the stable version 1.0.0.

</div>

The new SDK enables developers to focus on their product rather than on the Sirius-Chain specific API details due to its higher abstraction.

XPX-Chain-SDK shares the same design/architecture between programming languages to accomplish the next properties:

- **Fast language adaptation**: There is a library for Java, but you need it for C# for example. As both SDKs share the same design, you can re-write the library faster, adapting the syntax to your language. It also applies to examples, projects, applications…
- **Cohesion/shared knowledge cross Sirius-Chain developers**: Be able to change between projects that use Sirius-Chain, sharing the same design accompanied by the best practices.
- **Fast SDK updates**: Migrating any improvement from a XPX-Chain-SDK implementation to the rest is faster.
- **Fewer bugs**: If any bug appears in one language, it is faster to check and fix it.

The best way to learn about the SDKs is through [guides](../built-in-features/account.md).
