docs/getting-started/self-paced-training.md, before:

---
id: self-paced-training
title: Self-paced Training
---
Although you can read this documentation from start to end, we recommend you to go directly to the section you want to know more. At the end of each section, you will find specific guides to understand how to use and combine the different built-in features.

If you prefer to learn about ProximaX through guided lessons, consider taking one course from the following list.

## Courses

**Title** | **Description** | **Target** | **Active contributors**
----------|-----------------|------------|------------------------
[Getting started with ProximaX Catapult](https://craftain.com/courses/getting-started-with-nem-catapult/) | Build a decentralized blockchain app using Catapult. | Developers (ProximaX novice) | Craftain and ProximaX Foundation
[Notarization of documents on ProximaX blockchain](https://proximax-storage.github.io/nem2-workshop-document-notarization/)  | Learn how digital assets can be notarized in the blockchain. | Developers (ProximaX advanced beginner) | ProximaX Foundation
[ProximaX applied to supply chain](https://proximax-storage.github.io/nem2-workshop-nem-applied-to-supply-chain/) | Start developing a real use case step by step. | Developers (ProximaX competent) | ProximaX Foundation

## Adding a new course

We suggest reviewing our [Curricular Framework](https://proximax-storage.github.io/nem2-curricular-framework/) and forking the [NEM2-workshop-template](https://github.com/proximax-storage/nem2-workshop-template).

<div class="info">

**Note**

The courses published in this section must be available online.
</div>

Once the course is complete, add it to this page by clicking the “Edit on Github” button at the top-right part of the screen.

Commit message:

replace catapult with Sirius-Chain, standardize the use of blockchain with Sirius-Chain

docs/getting-started/self-paced-training.md, after:

---
id: self-paced-training
title: Self-paced Training
---
Although you can read this documentation from start to end, we recommend you to go directly to the section you want to know more. At the end of each section, you will find specific guides to understand how to use and combine the different built-in features.

If you prefer to learn about Sirius-Chain through guided lessons, consider taking one course from the following list.

## Courses

**Title** | **Description** | **Target** | **Active contributors**
----------|-----------------|------------|------------------------
[Getting started with Sirius-Chain](https://craftain.com/courses/getting-started-with-nem-catapult/) | Build a decentralized blockchain app using Sirius-Chain. | Developers (ProximaX novice) | Craftain and ProximaX Foundation
[Notarization of documents on Sirius-Chain](https://proximax-storage.github.io/nem2-workshop-document-notarization/)  | Learn how digital assets can be notarized in the blockchain. | Developers (ProximaX advanced beginner) | ProximaX Foundation
[ProximaX applied to supply chain](https://proximax-storage.github.io/nem2-workshop-nem-applied-to-supply-chain/) | Start developing a real use case step by step. | Developers (ProximaX competent) | ProximaX Foundation

## Adding a new course

We suggest reviewing our [Curricular Framework](https://proximax-storage.github.io/nem2-curricular-framework/) and forking the [NEM2-workshop-template](https://github.com/proximax-storage/nem2-workshop-template).

<div class="info">

**Note**

The courses published in this section must be available online.
</div>

Once the course is complete, add it to this page by clicking the “Edit on Github” button at the top-right part of the screen.
