docs/built-in-features/multisig-account.md, before:

---
id: multisig-account
title: Multisig Account
---
Editable on-chain contracts, the most powerful way to secure funds and enable joint accounts.

A ProximaX [account](./account.md) can be [converted to multisig](../guides/multisig-account/converting-an-account-to-multisig.md). From that moment on, the account cannot announce transactions by itself. It will require other accounts to announce transactions for them. These other accounts are the multisig cosignatories.

Nevertheless, it is not always necessary to force all cosignatories to cosign the transaction. ProximaX allows to set up the minimum number of consignatory agreements. These properties can be edited afterwards to suit almost all needs. ProximaX’s current implementation of multisig is “M-of-N”. This means that M can be any number equal to or less than N, i.e., 1-of-4, 2-of-2, 4-of-9, 9-of-10 and so on.

The number of minimum cosignatures to approve transactions and remove cosignatories is editable.

<div class=info>

**Note**

Multisig accounts are a powerful tool, but please use this tool with caution. If cosignatories keys get lost and minimum approval is not reached, it would result in the permanent loss of access to the funds held by the multisig account. Choose wisely `minimum removal` parameter to avoid this situation.

</div>

Some important considerations to keep in mind:

- Multisig accounts can have up to `10` cosignatories.
- An account can be cosigner of up to `5` multisig accounts.
- Multisig accounts can have as a cosigner another multisig, up to `3` levels. Multi-level multisig accounts add “AND/OR” logic to multi-signature transactions.

## Examples

There is a broad range of useful applications for multisig accounts. Let’s take a look at some of the most common use cases.
Shared accounts

Several families are members of the local philatelist society and use a shared account to buy stamps.

To ensure that all agree on which old stamps they should buy and on the right price, they use a multisig account. This way, all members of the society need to approve the transaction before it is included in the blockchain.

![Multisig 2-of-3](/img/multisig-2-of-3.png "Multisig 2-of-3")

<p class="caption">M-of-N multisig account</p>

## Multi-factor authorization

Alice wants to make sure her funds are not compromised in any way. Therefore she sets up a multisig account with her funds and attaches two accounts (signer accounts) to control her multisig account as a form of 2-factor authentication.

Both of her signer accounts need to approve the transaction, and her signer accounts are located on different computer platforms with different passwords. This means that even if an evil hacker or virus should compromise one of her accounts, the funds are still kept secure.

![Multisig multifactor auth](/img/multisig-multifactor-auth.png "Multisig multifactor auth")

<p class="caption">Multi-factor authorization using multisig accounts</p>

## Assets ownership

Multisig accounts can be used to represent the ownership of assets.

A company could create a 1-of-1 multisig account for each of their products, adding themselves as the cosignatory. When the company sells the product to Alice, she becomes the owner, being the company removed in the same transaction.

![Multisig asset ownership](/img/multisig-asset-ownership.png "Multisig asset ownership")

<p class="caption">Transferring an account</p>

## Manufacturing and Supply Chains

In this example, a manufacturer is shipping a pharmaceutical product.

The product receives its quality approval [mosaic](./mosaic.md) only when its blockchain record shows it has a production date, safety inspection, and was shipped at the correct temperature.

Sensors in the shipping container report temperature data every 5 minutes and consolidate it into a daily report.

![Multi-level supply chain](/img/mlma-supply-chain.png "Multi-level supply chain")

<p class="caption">Manufacturing and Supply Chains</p>

## Fraud Detection

This example shows how a high-security account can be made easier to use.

Transactions are only approved from a hardware wallet OR your phone AND a fraud detection AI. MLMA allows a variety of security configurations at the protocol level to keep businesses and their customers hack-free.

![Multi-level fraud detection](/img/mlma-fraud-detection.png "Multi-level fraud detection")

<p class="caption">Fraud Detection</p>

## Guides

- [Signing announced aggregate bonded transactions](../guides/multisig-account/signing-announced-aggregate-bonded-transactions.md)

    You have probably announced an aggregate bonded transaction, but all required cosigners have not signed it yet.

- [Converting an account to multisig](../guides/multisig-account/converting-an-account-to-multisig.md)

    Create a 1-of-2 multisig account, by adding two cosignatories.

- [Modifying a multisig account](../guides/multisig-account/modifying-a-multisig-account.md)

    Modify an existing multisig account.

- [Creating a multi-level multisig account (MLMA)](../guides/multisig-account/creating-a-multi-level-multisig-account.md)

    Create a multi-level multisig account.

- [Sending a multisig transaction](../guides/multisig-account/sending-a-multisig-transaction.md)

    Send a transaction involving a multisig and learn how an aggregate bonded transaction works.

## Schemas

<div class="info">

**Note**

Configuration parameters are [editable](https://github.com/proximax-storage/catapult-server/blob/master/resources/config-network.properties) . Public network configuration may differ.

</div>

### ModifyMultisigTransaction

Announce a modify multisig account transaction to:

<div class="alpha-ol">

1. Transform an account to multisig.

2. Change the configurable properties of a multisig account.

</div>

**Version**: 0x03

**Entity type**: 0x4155

**Inlines**:

- [Transaction](../protocol/transaction.md#transaction) or [EmbeddedTransaction](../protocol/transaction.md#embeddedtransaction)

**Property** |	**Type** |	**Description**
-------------|-----------|---------------------
minRemovalDelta |	int8 |	The number of signatures needed to remove a cosignatory. If we are modifying an existing multisig account, this indicates the relative change of the minimum cosignatories.
minApprovalDelta |	int8 |	The number of signatures needed to approve a transaction. If we are modifying an existing multisig account, this indicates the relative change of the minimum cosignatories.
modificationsCount |	uint8 |	The number of modifications.
modification |	array([CosignatoryModification](#cosignatorymodification), modificationsCount) |	The array of cosignatory [accounts](./account.md) to add or delete.

### CosignatoryModification

**Property** |	**Type** |	**Description**
-------------|-----------|---------------------
modificationType |	[CosignatoryModificationType](#cosignatorymodificationtype) |	The cosignatory modification type.
cosignatoryPublicKey |	32 bytes (binary) |	The public key of the cosignatory.

### CosignatoryModificationType

Enumeration: uint8
**Id** | 	**Description**
-------|----------------------
0 |	Add cosignatory.
1 |	Remove cosignatory.

Commit message:

replace catapult with Sirius-Chain, standardize the use of blockchain with Sirius-Chain

docs/built-in-features/multisig-account.md, after:

---
id: multisig-account
title: Multisig Account
---
Editable on-chain contracts, the most powerful way to secure funds and enable joint accounts.

A Sirius-Chain [account](./account.md) can be [converted to multisig](../guides/multisig-account/converting-an-account-to-multisig.md). From that moment on, the account cannot announce transactions by itself. It will require other accounts to announce transactions for them. These other accounts are the multisig cosignatories.

Nevertheless, it is not always necessary to force all cosignatories to cosign the transaction. Sirius-Chain allows to set up the minimum number of consignatory agreements. These properties can be edited afterwards to suit almost all needs. Sirius-Chain current implementation of multisig is “M-of-N”. This means that M can be any number equal to or less than N, i.e., 1-of-4, 2-of-2, 4-of-9, 9-of-10 and so on.

The number of minimum cosignatures to approve transactions and remove cosignatories is editable.

<div class=info>

**Note**

Multisig accounts are a powerful tool, but please use this tool with caution. If cosignatories keys get lost and minimum approval is not reached, it would result in the permanent loss of access to the funds held by the multisig account. Choose wisely `minimum removal` parameter to avoid this situation.

</div>

Some important considerations to keep in mind:

- Multisig accounts can have up to `10` cosignatories.
- An account can be cosigner of up to `5` multisig accounts.
- Multisig accounts can have as a cosigner another multisig, up to `3` levels. Multi-level multisig accounts add “AND/OR” logic to multi-signature transactions.

## Examples

There is a broad range of useful applications for multisig accounts. Let’s take a look at some of the most common use cases.
Shared accounts

Several families are members of the local philatelist society and use a shared account to buy stamps.

To ensure that all agree on which old stamps they should buy and on the right price, they use a multisig account. This way, all members of the society need to approve the transaction before it is included in the blockchain.

![Multisig 2-of-3](/img/multisig-2-of-3.png "Multisig 2-of-3")

<p class="caption">M-of-N multisig account</p>

## Multi-factor authorization

Alice wants to make sure her funds are not compromised in any way. Therefore she sets up a multisig account with her funds and attaches two accounts (signer accounts) to control her multisig account as a form of 2-factor authentication.

Both of her signer accounts need to approve the transaction, and her signer accounts are located on different computer platforms with different passwords. This means that even if an evil hacker or virus should compromise one of her accounts, the funds are still kept secure.

![Multisig multifactor auth](/img/multisig-multifactor-auth.png "Multisig multifactor auth")

<p class="caption">Multi-factor authorization using multisig accounts</p>

## Assets ownership

Multisig accounts can be used to represent the ownership of assets.

A company could create a 1-of-1 multisig account for each of their products, adding themselves as the cosignatory. When the company sells the product to Alice, she becomes the owner, being the company removed in the same transaction.

![Multisig asset ownership](/img/multisig-asset-ownership.png "Multisig asset ownership")

<p class="caption">Transferring an account</p>

## Manufacturing and Supply Chains

In this example, a manufacturer is shipping a pharmaceutical product.

The product receives its quality approval [mosaic](./mosaic.md) only when its blockchain record shows it has a production date, safety inspection, and was shipped at the correct temperature.

Sensors in the shipping container report temperature data every 5 minutes and consolidate it into a daily report.

![Multi-level supply chain](/img/mlma-supply-chain.png "Multi-level supply chain")

<p class="caption">Manufacturing and Supply Chains</p>

## Fraud Detection

This example shows how a high-security account can be made easier to use.

Transactions are only approved from a hardware wallet OR your phone AND a fraud detection AI. MLMA allows a variety of security configurations at the protocol level to keep businesses and their customers hack-free.

![Multi-level fraud detection](/img/mlma-fraud-detection.png "Multi-level fraud detection")

<p class="caption">Fraud Detection</p>

## Guides

- [Signing announced aggregate bonded transactions](../guides/multisig-account/signing-announced-aggregate-bonded-transactions.md)

    You have probably announced an aggregate bonded transaction, but all required cosigners have not signed it yet.

- [Converting an account to multisig](../guides/multisig-account/converting-an-account-to-multisig.md)

    Create a 1-of-2 multisig account, by adding two cosignatories.

- [Modifying a multisig account](../guides/multisig-account/modifying-a-multisig-account.md)

    Modify an existing multisig account.

- [Creating a multi-level multisig account (MLMA)](../guides/multisig-account/creating-a-multi-level-multisig-account.md)

    Create a multi-level multisig account.

- [Sending a multisig transaction](../guides/multisig-account/sending-a-multisig-transaction.md)

    Send a transaction involving a multisig and learn how an aggregate bonded transaction works.

## Schemas

<div class="info">

**Note**

Configuration parameters are [editable](https://github.com/proximax-storage/catapult-server/blob/master/resources/config-network.properties) . Public network configuration may differ.

</div>

### ModifyMultisigTransaction

Announce a modify multisig account transaction to:

<div class="alpha-ol">

1. Transform an account to multisig.

2. Change the configurable properties of a multisig account.

</div>

**Version**: 0x03

**Entity type**: 0x4155

**Inlines**:

- [Transaction](../protocol/transaction.md#transaction) or [EmbeddedTransaction](../protocol/transaction.md#embeddedtransaction)

**Property** |	**Type** |	**Description**
-------------|-----------|---------------------
minRemovalDelta |	int8 |	The number of signatures needed to remove a cosignatory. If we are modifying an existing multisig account, this indicates the relative change of the minimum cosignatories.
minApprovalDelta |	int8 |	The number of signatures needed to approve a transaction. If we are modifying an existing multisig account, this indicates the relative change of the minimum cosignatories.
modificationsCount |	uint8 |	The number of modifications.
modification |	array([CosignatoryModification](#cosignatorymodification), modificationsCount) |	The array of cosignatory [accounts](./account.md) to add or delete.

### CosignatoryModification

**Property** |	**Type** |	**Description**
-------------|-----------|---------------------
modificationType |	[CosignatoryModificationType](#cosignatorymodificationtype) |	The cosignatory modification type.
cosignatoryPublicKey |	32 bytes (binary) |	The public key of the cosignatory.

### CosignatoryModificationType

Enumeration: uint8
**Id** | 	**Description**
-------|----------------------
0 |	Add cosignatory.
1 |	Remove cosignatory.
